This repository includes a variety of data structures. These data structures include following: MyArrayList, MyLinkedList, MyStack, MyQueue, MyMinHeap. MyArrayList is an implementation of a dynamic array list, MyLinkedList is an implementation of a singly linked list, MyStack is an implementation of stack, which uses an underlying array list, MyQueue is an implementation of a queue using MyLinkedList, MyMinHeap is an implementation of a heap that uses underlying array list. Dynamic array list does not have a fixed size and can be changed over time. It is flexible. With array-based implementation accessing elements by index is swift and efficient. Importing and instatizing MyArrayList allows to utilize methods such as add, remove, get, getsize and makes data management a little bit easier. In the linked list all the nodes contain data and reference to the next node, which interconnects them. Its hierarchical structure allows to easily add and remove elements. Incorporating MyLinkedList provides an opportunity to use all the methods without any errors, in other words, provides seamless management of the list. MyStack provides LIFO principles, meaning that I used push, pop, peek, isEmpty methods and organize the stack efficiently and the program can perform tasks. Using Myqueue can help to employ methods like offer, poll, peek, isEmpty, and size to manage queue operations systematically. Implementing MyMinHeap to use insert, deleteMin, isEmpty leverage methods to improve the efficiency of sorting and retrieval of tasks.
